Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today is Monday, December the
22nd, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report for the Benzinga Pro platform. I
am doing these, you know, in what would
be the middle of the night in our time
zone, but it is 3:13 in the afternoon
Tokyo time. Taking a look at what the
market is doing, lifting through the
space. We've had inventory continue to
be
uh what should we say? It's holding
upside, but we're at the zero DTE space.
That makes for shorting action
pretty fair, right? So, let's hop into
the 30inut chart. If you did watch me on
um
market kickoff uh on Topstep TV on the
YouTube channel, I did take the short at
the close of the one minute candlestick
formation and took it down. I was
watching it for a little bit and saw
this support ledge holding the zero DTE
6900 level and so I pulled the trade and
I'm very glad that I did just collected
a couple hundred bucks there but
it was a fairly solid trade. The one
thing that I want to share with you is
don't be afraid to look at a trade after
you're in it giving you new market
generated information to tell you
whether the price action is going to be
in a continuation formation the way that
you want it to be. This I think people
get sort of uh mixed up a little bit.
They do the set it and forget it. And
although that's great for, you know, a
Ronco rotisserie chicken, it might not
be ideal for um an intraday trader
looking to capture price action moves.
And so, nothing against Ron Poe.
Probably one of the best salesman that
we've
seen in I don't know, maybe a hundred
years, I would say. So,
in any case, I don't have any idea why I
digress on these things, folks, but you
know, I do. I can't help myself. All
right. So, what are we looking? If we
take a look, this is a really great um
indicator, and it is called a dynamic
where are we?
Not the dynamic cloud. That's this
moving average event.
uh crud sickles. I can't
see what it is, but I'll figure it out.
I'll let you know tomorrow. So, what we
have here is a very serious resistance
edge popping up. So, let's take a close
look at it.
Right, Trendpider is telling us that
there is selling pressure up here that
is not allowing price action to move
above 6906.
The moment that gets breached, folks,
we're going to very likely head to the
top of the 30-inut candlestick
formation. Right, we can see that we've
broken the lows a couple of times, but
staying above that zero DTE 6900. We'll
see where it moves tomorrow. My thought
is if you're staring down the charts,
it's pretty sideways right now. So look
for a breakout that is likely to
continue into the next gamma line at
and then 6920
and then well above it here is a very
big pocket of resistance from 6927 to
6932. Now let's say we lose the floor of
this 6900. Where are we likely to go?
Well, I suspect we fill the gap and we
move back into the last area of
inventory accumulation. How do you
measure that? Well, you look for the
wicks and you go, okay, I don't see too
much action there above it. So, you know
that's where the selling pressure was
and then all of a sudden it's not there
anymore. So, when that happens, you know
there's a continuation in the space. If
we lose the base that 6,900,
we're fairly likely to come in to 68.93
and then a very big box of support,
very big box of support that looks like
the anchored VWAP 6876
and then a lower low at 6867.
We are in a buy the dip formation. No
two ways about that. Look at the color
of the dynamic cloud. Look at the
location of the momentum.
And it's breaking the trend by time and
not price. Right? That means it's
holding the floor but not breaking out.
So what does that tell you? It tells you
they're collecting inventory. And so if
they're collecting inventory between 692
and 69,
when they break above that area, they're
going to look to liquidate at those
higher zones. So watch for that. Okay,
let's hop to the NQ.
We are in the H contract that expires in
March of next year. We can see that.
Yeah, you know, these guys look pretty
good. The ENQ looks really a lot better
than the ES does. The put wall just got
breached from yesterday. That is uh
which put wall is that? Yeah, that's the
zero DTE put wall. 25,500.
It's also value area high. And so the
breakaway at this NQ level takes us
right into the zero DTE call wall. And
guess what? We're stalling out right
there. 25,72.
So what do we want to do? We want to
zoom in tighter time frames and we want
to watch where are where they are
building inventory. Now again from
market kickoff I said this was pretty
messy and I still stand behind that. It
is very messy but it does look like it's
holding higher lows. And so the thought
process should be, okay, what's the
slope of my VWAP? It's up. What's the
location of my momentum indicator? It's
above zero, so that's positive. What
does my moving average cloud look like?
Also positive.
It tells me dips or buys. Now, could we
fill the gap before we really start
buying? Absolutely. This was my thought.
And my thought really is this. put
support at the zero DTE.
I'd like to buy it there. Right? That
being said, notice this pocket.
See how this pocket looks? That's a low
volume area. And it's also a major zone
of support.
Don't be surprised if we lose the floor
there and come in to 25,450.
If that happens, that's going to be a
pretty nice bounce zone. Now, here's the
line in the sand. Let's say you're
thinking about this and you're saying,
you know what, I want to go long.
Perfectly fine. Here's the thing. If you
lose
the low of that first 30 minute
candlestick
and it doesn't immediately bounce back
up into your box, we're probably going
to fill that gap. And if we fill the
gap, here is the last area we saw
inventory sort of tail off and say, you
know what? I don't I don't think we got
any buyers above this zone. So, that's
going to be our front line of support.
Old resistance, new support, 25,600.
All right. So, that's what we're staring
down. I like the bullish play. Don't be
surprised if we have some intraday
volatility that becomes
uh surprising.
Just step out of the way and stop trying
to catch the falling knife. If you try
it a couple of times, manage your risk
properly, and if it doesn't work out,
step aside, and wait for the market to
give you a nice spot to engage. For me,
I would say, hey, if it comes into this
25,
500, that would be fantastic, right? Old
resistance, new support, anchored VWAP
from Friday. That would be very, very
sweet. If it loses the edge, wait until
it recovers it and then consider the
trade, right? Don't don't get involved
with the falling knife event. It's just
it's just not wise. All right, let's
look at Bitcoin.
Bitcoin coming into a pretty solid level
of resistance. Let's take a look at the
4our formation. You can see it's still
sideways as all get out, folks. Look at
that. a base event at 85,000
and the top of the box really all the
way up at 93,500 but here are the call
walls right zero DT call wall 90,000
and the big call wall 91,000 very very
close to each other [snorts] pretty
solid support here at the 85,000 level
that looks like a pretty good buy zone
here's the
The yen trade is looking pretty
terrible. So, people who maybe bet that
the yen would um rise against the dollar
are getting pretty hammered on that
position. And what that means really is
that the carry trade is not unwinding.
If the carry trade does not unwind, the
liquidity that was set to leave Bitcoin
might stay in there and that might give
us a pretty solid bounce. Now, I've
mentioned this before, but I do want you
to keep your eyes on it because I just
looked at Japanese bonds and they are
screaming higher. Remember, bonds
higher, yields lower. But see, they just
raise the interest rates, so yields
should be higher. And [snorts] the same
way the bond market has absolute control
over the credit markets
in the US, same thing happens in Japan.
All the bond traders do it the same way.
And the bond market is I don't know I
think it's like 10 15 times the size of
the stock market. It's humongous,
ginormous. And so what we want to stare
down here is does it make sense to take
a long if Bitcoin can get up over
89,500?
And my suspicion is that it can. And if
it does, notice how long they've been
accumulating inventory in terms of a
range from that 89,500 all the way to
85. And so if we clone that for a
measured move,
that's going to take us up to 94,700.
That's certainly a possibility. My
thought is let it come back. See if it
can hold the point of control. That's
87,000.
And then get yourself along to the
upside. It looks pretty good. Truly, it
it looks pretty good. And you guys know
how bearish I am on Bitcoin, but it it
looks pretty good here. Okay, let's go
to oil.
As we can see, oil is sitting in the
same bounce pattern it's been sitting in
since
last week, right? Holding pretty well.
A lot of geopolitical chatter going on
here, right? We have two vessels that
have been
um I don't know what the word is,
stopped, held, contained, whatever. And
they're after a third vessel. And that
is a geopolitical risk more than it
actually is a WTI West Texas
Intermediate crude event. But it's going
to affect our WTI contract, which is
what we stare down right here. Notice 57
is where it's sitting. Guess what? Value
area low 5720. It came up into that
zone, rejected it a little. Old support,
potential new resistance. However, look
at the momentum. It's pretty solid.
We've got higher lows across the board.
And if it breaks the width,
$2, right? That's 200 ticks at $10 a
tick. So, uh,
lot of bucks right there. If it actually
moves to the north, that puts us
at about $59, which interestingly is
about 35 cents
shy of the point of control, which is
where the most contracts have traded.
Now, is this going to move up in one big
straight line? It could, especially
because so many people are short
that if it starts hurting them, they're
going to unwind and that's going to
squeeze like mad. So, there could be a
magnificent trade here in oil. maybe
pick up a micro so you um aren't
sweating bullets watching the trade
because you know this is a um a contract
that can really if you're in the wrong
direction it could hurt very badly in an
instant. So try a micro couple of micros
looks pretty good to me. I like this
trade a lot to the upside. I think dips
are pretty solid buy zones. Ideally,
I would like for it to come back into
the 56 area where the call wall is. See,
they've blown through all the call walls
already. And so, these guys are going to
rotate. They're going to rotate their
levels upward over the next couple of
days, especially if this holds on. But I
would not be surprised if they tried to
pull it back, which is why I'm saying,
you know, get yourself some micros. And
you can see this red area. It's
different to the heat map. Notice
the heat map shows where they're
accumulating.
The red zone up above shows us where
there's very active resistance. Okay?
And that's what we want to stare down.
Lower levels we should hold 55 should.
Upper levels point of control 59. Okay.
Let's take a look at gold. Gold and
platinum are just exploding higher. I
believe this is geopolitical risk. I
also believe it's currency risk. And if
I'm Japan and I raise my rates and I
expect my yields to pull down on the
bond market and it doesn't, I'm going to
the market to buy some gold.
This is what I'm going to do because
it's going to eventually allow me to
protect my currency.
And I see that this is happening. this
this is what I perceive. I have no idea
if it's actually happening or not, but
this is what I think. And so what does
that mean to us? Well, it means dips or
buys. So, let's take a look at the
channel. You have this big channel in
play.
The bottom is not holding as well as the
top. Although,
we could go to that midline right there.
Take a look at that.
Maybe we just use that midline event
right here and we just, you know, leave
that to whatever. Now, what that
suggests is that we should run into some
resistance higher up,
but we don't have any trades up there
for accumulating price pressures, right?
We can see the heat map telling us, hey,
we accumulated all the way here. And so
my thought would be if we know the heat
map is giving us accumulation there,
let's draw a Fibonacci and see if we can
extend it to the north to see what price
action is going to do. And so this gives
us one one and a half two two and a half
yes
to 4500. Martin Armstrong has 4600
to 4635 as a blowoff top. Um he's
showing some stuff that shows a panic
cycle for the euro in January. And so
that um also tells us a little bit of
currency stuff might be on the horizon.
If we're looking at gold and we're
trying to trade it, take have a gander
at this. just
a rocket launch
to the upside here. It's just been, you
know, going crazy since it started at
the the opening tick. It's just nothing
but and see this is Asia, right? It's
one in the morning. So, all of this is
Asia.
Now, in just a few moments, uh let's see
what would that be. Um there about eight
six
six hours behind us would be Europe. So,
they're getting ready to open up
shortly, maybe in a couple hours. And
so, then we'll see what goes on from
there. But the UK is not in good shape
either. They've got
uh mucho problem
as it goes. Um
we are finally starting to accumulate a
little bit of inventory instead of one
time framing up like we have through the
whole space.
Just watch it, folks. I would be very
careful shorting this. Very, very
careful. If it comes in for the dip,
it's a great buy zone. What would be my
wishing order?
or a test of the VWAP at 4,415.
Support floors very far below. And if we
eliminate
the Fibonacci that I just drew here,
let's eliminate this one
and instead draw the most recent wave
high low
150% gives us that 4445.
And then of course we have the co wall
there at 4460.
that's already rotated up. All right.
Finally, let's take a look at Spy.
Spy has not started printing yet. It
doesn't really start printing until 4:00
a.m. But what we can see
is that price action is holding steady
to the upside and it's got a pretty
clean trend on the bottom of it. Right?
So, what does this mean? Well, we got
two things. One, we had a bunch of
resistance here and we're climbing right
through it.
Here's the storyboard. If it tops like
this, you want to look for sideways
action
and then a rotation forward. So, what
could happen? We could gap up at 4 a.m.
The next gamma wall is at $682
and then we have an anchored VWAP at
$682.50.
We could easily gap into those areas.
Watch for the fade and the hold of 681
even and that might give us a nice run
to the upside. If we lose that 681,
it's very likely to go to 680. So, I
would step out of the way, let the
dollar come back, and then realize we
could see something that looks like this
where it rotates completely over. Okay,
things should be bullish, should
quotations, right? But we want to be
very careful. And when you're thinking
about going long and you go, all right,
I'm going long. Remember the the number
one thing is to think to yourself, if
I'm right, what should not happen? And
if you see it happening, then your mind
should say, hm, I might not be right. I
might be wrong. So, I better get out of
this trade instead of doubling down and
amplifying your risk. All right, take
care everyone.
Good luck trading.